okay great
so when our life guys hello I'm so
excited this is the first time I'm doing
something live on my channel and this is
really really cool because you will have
a chance to ask questions I will have
chance to answer them and today I have a
guest
I have Jonathan hi Jonathan hi marina
how are you doing hi everybody
very good very good thank you Jonathan
is a native speaker and he's a teacher
who helps a lot of students get ready
for that toy phul because well first
he's a native speaker he knows a lot
about English and second he's a very
experienced in teaching lensses teaching
to students via skype so and he knows
all the strategies for joyful and I
invited him over today to my channel so
he could share his experience of
teaching other people TOEFL and maybe
some tips and tricks that he has and
because he had so many students already
certain you have maybe you could tell us
about your students he said somebody got
to like American universities and yeah
so yeah thank you for inviting me on
here and as you said yeah I've been
teaching a lot of students over the past
couple years and some of my students
have managed to get at least 110 and
above which were some of the
requirements for some of the
universities in the States
that were good more competitive and some
of the students have been able to study
in New York and Michigan and they went
on to also continue living in the States
after they're studied so it's really a
pleasure for me and an honor that kind
of see that these students are
successful with their exam and that
those exam results are allowed them to
open new doors for where they can study
and where they can find job
opportunities afterwards mmm
yeah and I think it's really important
to find a teacher who will guide you
through the process because when I just
started preparing for TOEFL I was you
know I was at a loss because there are
so many things you can use to prepare
for TOEFL you can download the books you
can watch all the YouTube videos if you
have if you
have a lot of time for preparation than
you would you can just end up time you
know waste time looking for the right
teacher and I think we're we're very
lucky that Jonathan is here and I he can
take you and you know help you with
joyful so if you guys are looking for a
teacher I will leave a link below so you
can book lessons with Jonathan but today
he's going to tell us all about the
strategies right all the ticks and trips
so why don't we start with the
presentation cool yeah so let me switch
my screen over to my presentation and
then we can get started with that can
you see the first slide here yeah
perfect okay so we're looking at
strategies and I'm going to mix kind of
an overview of how the exam is organized
in case you're not in order with it
because sometimes when people are
cramming for the TOEFL or not giving
themselves enough time they kind of just
wing it and just say okay well I don't
have enough time I'm just going to kind
of take the TOEFL and yeah I'll see what
happens yeah and see what happens yet so
we've said hi again from me and from
marina and so just getting into the
overall structure so we've got the
reading sections listening speaking and
writing and I'm going to be kind of
basing some of these comments based on
the the IBT the internet-based one that
has been gaining a lot more ground and a
lot of testing centers over the past few
years so with reading carts you've got
about three or five passages here you
get about sixty minutes or so based on
how you can manage your time and then
with the listening you're listening to
both lectures like with the professor
and also conversations with students who
might be discussing things on the campus
or things related to student life
because the idea of the TOEFL is that
you can integrate into an American
University so you need to be able to
have a really good listening
comprehension of your teachers and
the fellow students that are going to be
living with and studying with yeah yeah
sorry I wanted to add that oh that all
the topics that you're going to hear
really practical like your neighbor
being so loud in the you know the next
room to your dorm or I don't know a
teacher talking about having tests in a
week because you know sometimes you get
a test and you get some weird text
you've never seen before and 12 you
listening and TOEFL speaking are very
practical so don't be scared yeah you
need to kind of get familiar with kind
of the the life of a university and what
things people might be talking about on
a daily basis so they try to orient some
of the testing questions to those real
life situations
yeah then we get into the like the
speaking section which is again divided
into like an independent part where
you're giving your opinion and then an
integrated part where you are maybe
reading listening speaking to kind of
react to some information that you have
and then finally the writing part again
you have something integrated where
you're either reading and listening and
writing and then you have a question
where you kind of develop your own
opinion and maybe take sides so it's
really born to kind of get that mindset
before you jump in and start getting
some strategies so you're going to do
something independent and integrated so
be familiar with like it's a whole mix
of when you're doing some of these
sections it isn't just only only
listening or only speaking sometimes
these different sections are mixing
you're reading listening and speaking or
reading listening writing yeah okay so
getting into the the reading section so
one of the strategies is to kind of
orient yourself with the questions ahead
of time and start looking through a
little bit with the answers so you can
start to determine like there might be
some things that you you have a specific
paragraph that they're orienting this
question for
so you can kind of tag that and and say
that okay when I'm looking for the
answer for this question I need to look
at this paragraph you so you can kind of
orient your reading and stay focused as
you're reading so that you don't just
kind of jump into the text without
knowing what answers you need to to be
aware of so remember that your your
reading is so that you can find answers
make sure you kind of take some notes
and a lot of these texts unfortunately
they're interesting if they were boring
it might be a very easy task to just get
the information and move on but
sometimes you get kind of lured into the
reading thinking oh this is really
fascinating this is really interesting
maybe a biography maybe something of a
different subject you have a study
before but you have to realize it's not
leisure reading so you need to stay
focused and just look for the answers
answer the questions and pace yourself
so that you are managing your time
successfully because it's very easy to
get distracted by just really
interesting content that you're there
for the purpose of finding answers and
so also with those questions answers
kind of be careful the way the answers
might be worded because they may
misconstrue uh some of the main points
that might be in a paragraph or a
sentence they may kind of take it out of
proportion they may switch the kind of
cause and effect they may get the
sequencing out of order there the way
they rephrase it or summarize it may
give that sentence a different meaning
so you have to be careful when they do
do the rephrasing or summarizing that it
preserves the same Nene and if you if
you sense like your gut instinct that
there might be something wrong with this
answer mark it off as like no skip it
like this is wrong
trust your gut instinct because if
something is off it's probably there as
a distractor yeah yeah maybe I could add
my experience reading maybe yeah we did
swaye so yes you tell things about the
part and I said I tell about my
experience my experience was course yeah
the method I've used was I just read the
first lines of each paragraph so that
was the first thing I did and then I
kind of got familiar with the text
because I knew what each paragraph talks
about and where to look for a specific
answer and then I got back to the
questions and you know like identified
which quench question belongs to which
paragraph and the good thing about
joyfull is all of them go in order so
the first question would refer to one of
the first paragraphs and then you just
go down the text so this was the
strategy that I've used yeah that's
excellent um and I've seen these
strategies and other resources saying
like as you're taking notes kind of get
a brief outline of the way the text is
written because like you said yeah
they're not going to be jumping around
questions and answers they're kind of
trying to keep the question one goes
with paragraph one and so forth so that
it's it's already a stressful experience
anyway to take the test but then making
the reading questions a bit even more
complicated where you have to jump
around that's not their their objective
here so yeah if you can get a brief
outline of the main point of that
paragraph that'll help you when you're
looking for questions and answers very
quickly okay so let's look at some of
the typical types of questions that you
might have in these sections so one of
them might be the vocabulary so uh there
might be a specific word used in the
sentence or paragraph and then you're
looking for synonyms or they might be
using antonyms as well so you're going
to want to develop your vocabulary so
you might take a look at exams for like
the SAT that's really good at building
up okay really those are that's a test
that American high school students
usually take to develop their vocabulary
so they can perform better at a
university and you might want to look at
resources like the thesaurus com where
as you are looking at your vocabulary
you find other
that mean the same thing so that's a
really good way to develop your
vocabulary and they use that these
reading questions looking at some of the
details so that you are sensitive to
well if they said okay here is the
general point and then they give some
specifics so they will get into some of
those questions here
also using exceptions so they might give
details of an idea or a process and
they'll give you one of them that's not
mentioned in that text you have to be
sensitive to the information that's
being presented their inference this is
a bit harder but you kind of have to
synthesize the information that you're
reading and try to draw a conclusion
about what the point is in that writing
the purpose so you have to also not just
look at the words the vocabulary the
grammar but also kind of what is the
intention behind this writing does the
author have a biased opinion are they
trying to present something to explain
it to you are they trying to convince
you of something so try to be sensitive
of those details also reference so maybe
a word here is being like a is
substituting something else that's the
text so like if you say the president of
the country and then you talk about the
leader so that's kind of sensitivity to
realize that okay this word is referring
to this person or this concept
paraphrasing so they're going to be
taking information yeah this is kind of
hard because yeah definitely because
they they will purposely paraphrase in
the wrong way or they'll add something
they'll add a detail in there that will
just throw the answer off slightly and
if you're not sensitive to those nuances
the differences you can get caught off
guard with these once you
to be very covered with a paraphrase
questions text insertion this one's a
little tricky where they'll give you
like an extra sentence and they'll give
you like points in the text paragraph
where they'll say here you can put this
sentence back in or where would it flow
the best so you'd be sensitive to
transition phrases or contrast phrases
or sequencing phrases so that you can
see how the flow of that paragraph would
would work if you put the sentence in
there and you get a summary so you're
trying to take an entire section of like
four or five paragraphs in summarizing
this down into three sentences and
they're probably give you like two or
three extra ones just to distract you
and you have to pick like the the only
three sentences that would summarize
this text and so in the last one this is
taking some of the information from like
a lecture or that kind of that kind of a
presentation of information and
categorizing this information to mean
like a table so there might be a way to
divide a topic into like this is one
thing and this is another and then you
have to take some of these features or
characteristics and try to categorize
them the way they would fit with that
topic so those are some of the typical
questions you would see in the reading
and at the top the vocabulary detail
exception ones those are the more the
frequent ones that you see and the ones
at the bottom of this list are a little
less frequent and a little bit harder I
would say mm-hmm do you have any other
comments about these questions or your
experience as well um I would say that
you just have to make sure you're
familiar with every type of question and
that's actually what toyo preparation is
about because joyful preparation is not
about learning English from scratch it's
about getting familiar with how to offer
questions look like because when you
come to the exam and you're nervous and
seeing a sort of question
you've never answered before this is
even more stressful so just make sure
that if you have very limited time for
preparation make sure that you do
reading like eight times because you
have to make sure you see every single
question every single type of question
and make sure you answer it correctly so
you don't have like a typical mistake
that you made in some sort of question
oh yeah definitely taking practice tests
are one of the best ways that you can
prepare for this because the the only
way to get better about this is practice
and and there's a lot of content out
there for the reading tests those are
things you can definitely do
independently and there's a lot of
websites out there that will give you
free practice tests especially with the
reading section the listening section
since those are things that you can just
consume the information the the speaking
and writing part those are really more
subjective because you have to produce
something and it's a bit more difficult
for a website to just give a
one-size-fits-all approach but for the
reading and listening that you can find
lots of websites out there that can give
you examples okay let's move on to the
listening section you should know that
there was a good question from Jeff he's
asking did they say what paragraph
exactly contains the answer for the
question and not unfortunately they
don't otherwise it would be very easy if
they say hey look with a missing
paragraph 3 so you just have to decide
which paragraph answers the question and
as I said if the question comes in later
it means that you have to look for
paragraph in the middle for example if
it's the last question it's very likely
that the answer would be in the last
paragraph yes some of these examples
that I took from example practice tests
they may say something like according to
paragraph 2 or paragraph 5 and those
examples it's very specific that they
want some piece of information but other
ones they're not necessarily going to
really specify where you can find that
answer but like marina just said yeah if
you can follow the order of the
questions they typically follow the
order of the information in the reading
mm-hmm okay
let's move on to the listening to keep
this flowing so the listening you're
going to be listening to as I mentioned
before like lectures and conversations
as so you need to film where with this
kind of unrehearsed speech and natural
conversation so one thing that I do
often recommend to my students is to go
join a lot of free massive open online
courses so things like on Coursera or
EDX or open culture or things you can
find on MOOC lists and really just go
and listen to lectures from professors
and just get used to the way professors
would talk to their students and how
they would present information and just
get familiar with that listening and
since it's just it's free and it's these
are online courses you can watch them on
YouTube maybe listen to them at podcast
as well just get familiar with the
listening skills and if you can take
notes that's even better but also on a
lot of these websites that are offering
the TOEFL listening go through those
specific listening questions and
practice them again and again also with
natural conversations between people
listen to podcasts listen to interviews
talk radio webinars like this where I'm
improvising what I'm saying I bet I
practiced it but the way I'm speaking
I'm just not scripted so you need to
kind of get your ear around those
situations it's so that you can become
familiar with the way people speak in a
classroom outside of the classroom
mm-hmm yeah I think there is no like
separate strategy for listening well
there's no specific strategy I try to
write everything down but it's also very
important when you're writing things
down not to miss details when they're
speaking so just be careful writing
everything down and as I said I don't
think well writing down everything
really helped me a lot because 80% of
the questions I was able to answer them
just by remembering the text and 20% yes
maybe I looked into the notes and chose
the correct answer based on the notes
but yeah just be careful and the best
way to prepare is true to listen to
you know Jonathan to listen to me well
I'm not the best example Jonathan is
better so yeah just listen to Americans
because they're gonna have American
speaking to you that's cool and I mean I
definitely value your opinion of
somebody who has taken the test who has
lived in the States so you have a lot of
valuable information as well so yeah
people like marina who have gone through
the experience and give you their
feedback on that are very valuable for
their insights so though it isn't just
native speakers the way we speak but
it's also the way people have integrated
if studied abroad and can tell them tell
people about those that successful
experience it's a lot of value
information that you can get mm-hmm so
let's look at some difficult questions
again similar to like the reading you
may get things like the purpose why does
the professor explain this concept some
specific detail according to this
lecture what is this word or phrase mean
the function again it's similar to
purpose but it's a it's just a different
nuance here the attitude again like in
the reading the this attitude one is
it's a little bit more specific to the
listening because you can listen to the
person's voice and their intonation and
maybe the choice of words to see are
they biased or the subjective are they
objective
do they support something do they think
something that is bad or good so be
careful listen pay attention to those
details because you don't really see
those in a reading text also the
organization so kind of getting them to
the general and specific details of what
was being discussed also connecting the
content so this might be if you're
listening is combined with a part is a
little bit of a reading and a listening
so you have to be able to integrate kind
of the information that's being
presented to you and once again with
inference
what is meant so a couple of these
questions kind of relate with each other
and finally again there's a summary
question where you have to take all the
information that you've heard and put
this into the best kind of paraphrasing
as possible and Apollo going to give you
some distractors as well but you can get
anything thrown at you with the
listening so it's a little bit hard to
give a one size fits all strategy for
listening because it just covers so many
different possible things of lectures
and student conversations yeah sometimes
they say like the question is what will
the students do next week and like
professor says okay next week we're
going to take a test but two days after
next week we're going to read a new text
so something like this so he would
mislead you with his answer oh yeah they
love doing those kind of distractors
were you think that the answer is what
you're listening to and then they will
contradict themselves so you have to be
careful with with that information as
well okay now the next section that you
can kind of have a bit more control over
is your speaking so with your speaking
you're going to have like six questions
on here you'll have a variety of topics
and you're going to give your opinion on
something or you're going to again
respond to maybe something you read or
something you listen to so there's a
personal choice a sorry personal
preference of something about yourself
or things that you are familiar with and
given a choice between two situations or
two opinions you have to kind of choose
one and then start speaking this is very
limited you only get like 15 seconds to
prepare so and then 45 seconds to speak
so a lot of students come into this just
very nervous
when they're trying to prepare and
they're also worried about like am I am
I saying the right answer and the
reality is like there is no right answer
that the people who are listening to
this information they don't know you so
they don't know like oh is that person
your best
and is that really and you're describing
them or your choice like people prefer
cats or dogs and which one do you like
him maybe the listener doesn't like cats
but who cares I mean you have to pick
one and go with it it's not the quality
of your answer is not based on exactly
that content or that choice it's the way
you speak and present yourself and with
one student recently that I was helping
prepare let's say for the choice maybe
your gut instinct is to say I like my
personal preference is this thing and
then you start to try to come up with
ideas and brainstorm ideas and you don't
find anything so if that's the case you
kind of have to switch and have a like a
plan B so that if your other choice
generates more ideas you should probably
go with that one so be open to like when
you're brainstorming have the
possibility of like brainstorming two
ideas and seeing which one is going to
generate more speaking points and again
with your your choice if you have a like
some people prefer to study in a library
some people prefer the study on the
internet which one is better or which
one you choose maybe you kind of go
through both and your ideas just start
to generate more for one go with that
one so don't get yourself kind of stuck
in a corner because you went like with
your first gut instinct kind of be able
to have both of these in 15 seconds it's
a lot of stress but the more times you
prepare this the better you'll get added
yeah my only tip would be practice
practice and practice when I first tried
the speaking section I thought I'm gonna
fail and then it was so stressful so I
just downloaded an app that had eight
speaking sections in a row and I did
them all in a day let me think by the
end of the day I was so much better than
in the morning and then for the next few
days
I just asked people around me to ask me
weird questions like what kind of music
do you like or what kind of paintings do
you like or what's your favorite
all right whatever so Oh this was I
think this was something by Kaplan and
they have like a lot of practice tests
so it was very useful and yeah somebody
is asking a question if they can do
notes like separately on the draft paper
that they give you and yes you can do
notes so you can write things down and
what I did I learned some introductory
words for the speaking section like in
my opinion the speaker says something
like that and I just wrote them down
during the break um so they just came
from my brain I roll them dumb just to
have them in front of me and make the
stress go away by having something yeah
exactly like you can take notes but just
be very brief with your notes so that
you don't waste time just so like you
want to have some of those signposting
things like you said of like giving your
opinion expression your opinion clearly
then giving a reason and giving an
example of that and then maybe if you
have another reason another example that
kind of would be a good template that
you could use for that I think I'm
jumping ahead in a slide here but so the
other speaking section is this
integrated task so this is a combination
of reading listening speaking or just
listening speaking so you might have
something that is related to two
students talking about something about
uh related to life on campus and they'll
talk about an issue that was presented
in that text and one person will have an
opinion and they may discuss this and
then you have to kind of summarize what
that person's opinion is so you have to
be very good at kind of summarizing what
people think and say so you want to
practice a lot of the kind of indirect
speech like this person said that or say
and Intel can be a little boring so you
might want to use other words like
mentioned or supported or argued against
so try to get creative with
some of that additional vocabulary that
you could have that would be synonyms
say and tell you might get some bonus
points for like that variety in your
speaking which with your book capillary
then another one might be related to a
lecture so again you're reading
something and then listening to a
lecture and then you kind of have to
comment on that both of that with
reading and lecture and maybe a contrast
of what they say or how that idea is
developed then the last ones would be
listening and speaking so again a
conversation between students something
related to a problem on the campus and
then maybe possible solutions and then
you have to summarize and maybe even
give your opinion about which one you
would choose and then the last one kind
of listen to a lecture summarize it and
show your understanding of that so again
you have 30 seconds to prepare her and
60 seconds to speak it can be stressful
I understand that and for a lot of
students we spend a lot of time
preparing this speaking section and if
you can get like a timer on your
computer or your phone and just keep
timing yourself and pace yourself to see
where are you a with your speaking at 10
seconds where are you with your speaking
okay at 20 40 seconds as so you can you
don't want to get cut off with the
recording and you don't want to just
have ten seconds where you're not saying
anything so you need to figure out ways
to if you draw a blank you have to
figure out a way to keep going with your
speaking and move on because if you just
have a lot of silence that you'll be
penalized for that and if you get cut
off you'll probably get penalized as
well so you have to pace yourself with
this in the the way to get good at that
is to time yourself over and over and
over again and like marina said if
having people kind of ask you random
questions and really how access remoting
quickly that's away and just a few last
comments these are some examples with
the speaking section so something like
who's your best friend what's your
favorite place to go on the way
ken's uh what's your most important
possession an enjoyable or memorable
experience so you have to describe some
things about yourself or things that you
do in general but a beep kind of get to
the point be brief with what it is that
you're going to work on because if you
have a very limited time to prepare this
you can you're not you're not going to
write a blog post or an essay about this
you just need to speak about this for
like 45 seconds so you need to have a
few brief point that you can get to and
develop as you're speaking and with the
the other part of making a choice
they'll probably present this as
something like some people like this or
some people prefer this while others
prefer this or think this and what is
your opinion and explain why so a good
template is like state your choice you
have a reason give an example and if you
have more time give another reason
another example but it also have a very
brief conclusion for that so you don't
get kind of cut off with this and using
some of these expressions like in my
opinion and my view as I see it my mind
personally so there's a lot of
vocabulary words and expressions that
you could use to practice with and that
will gives more structure to your
speaking and it's also a good idea to
look at the rubrics so that you know how
you're going to be graded so if you're
looking at the quality of a score that
gets a for what why do they get that
score so what you need to kind of keep
in mind with your speaking so take a
look at these rubrics for the speaking
and for the writing and this will kind
of help you prepare your answers a
little bit better for that do you have
any other comments here about the
speaking section no I think well for me
this is really you just have to practice
practice practice and learn the key
words like introduction words and
phrases yeah definitely definitely and
and yeah definitely just the path
and record yourself if you have an
opportunity to send recordings to a
teacher or to a language exchange
partner or just get people's opinion
about your speaking and to get that
feedback and also a lot of these
websites sometimes they allow you to
listen to a sample speaking answer and
try to get familiar with the way that
person speaks how do they present their
information so if especially from the
the test creator if they have a typical
answer that would be at this top score
by all means try to emulate and imitate
that that good answer that they're
looking for mm-hmm yeah yeah this yeah
yeah go on no I was just I was just
telling people that um before we move on
to the last part which is writing maybe
they could you know ask the questions so
we can have some time in the end oh yeah
of course
yeah so guys if you have any questions
please feel free to write them down now
and we're gonna go to the last section
and then we'll answer your questions
yeah and then finally the writing
section here so again you have an
integrated task in an independent task
so the integrated one you're going to do
something with like reading and
listening and then writing and then
you're independent you're gonna have
like a again kind of like the speaking
one with the independent choice you have
to develop like an opinion about the
topic again since this is the IBT
it's computer-based it's really
important that you improve your typing
skills because your typing is definitely
going to allow you to write as many
words as possible so one resource that I
really like using is this thing called
ten fast fingers comm it's got words
that are printed on the screen and you
type and it will start testing you how
fast you type and it's just you can use
this over and over again and it's a good
way to improve your typing skills and so
yeah you really want to improve your
typing then with your writing skills
again with the you
want to know how they're going to grade
you so the priorities in the the way
they're going to grade you is your
introduction your conclusion how do you
structure your paragraphs how do you use
transition words and expressions and
expressions how is your your arguments
your supporting details of how are you
developing your ideas so those are
things that they're going to be looking
at and what's called a lower order is
things that will be kind of not so
important so
if you make some spelling mistakes or
grammatical mistakes that might not be
as bad as you think it is or the
sentence structure if there's something
that's kind of slightly off or your
choice of words if it's not the best one
as long as those don't detract from the
overall meaning of your sentence as long
as people can understand what you're
trying to say those details are not
going to mean that you get a zero that
it's there the people who are reading
your writing are going to be focusing
more on how you structure your ideas how
you present them overall not so much of
these tiny little details of spelling
and grammar so that that's that's a good
point because a lot of people are
worried about being perfect with their
spelling with a grammar and the
sentences but it's more important how
you present your ideas so let's take a
look at the example here of like one of
the integrated tasks so we got something
here with the reading listening writing
and they just said okay summarize the
main points in the lecture so you got 20
minutes and you're aiming for about 150
200 words and so as you can see in this
in this text I'm not going to read the
whole thing but just taking some of the
the key things I can see here is the
first sentence has a very clear sentence
to say okay the lecture talks about
research conducted depth of thought so
they clearly paraphrase and summarize
what's this passage about then kind of
gives a example or a reason to support
that sentence
then there are some structures phrases
here you can see first second third for
the start of each paragraph and each
paragraph has a pretty good way of
giving a topic idea then supporting it
so this as I say here this this answer
gets a 5 so there's a lot of clear
structure the ideas look well supported
I can see some things like however I can
see just some ways of showing contrasts
and sequencing as well so that's a good
way to structure your ideas then on the
independent tasks here so you have to
give an opinion it's like the speaking
part so in one template you could use is
give your introduction state your
opinion and then with your two next
programs like a first reason an example
and something to support that and again
a second reason and support with that
and finally conclude your than summary
so you want to be able to use some of
these phrases for transitions sequencing
contrasting ways to say hues an example
for example so you want to look at some
of those vocabulary building exercises
so that you a read ER looking at your
text is going to see that structure and
the way your ideas would be built up so
again on the internet you can find lots
and lots of examples of here is an
example of a text that would be scored
out of 5 so take a look at those
examples as many as you can find and try
to take the skeleton or the template of
that writing and see if you can write
your own answer and keeping some of
those elements be careful though bit
that you don't want to memorize things
because if if people read your text and
they sense that you have memorized a
sentence you probably would get a zero
so you have to be careful on like you
can use it an overall skeleton template
like I've just given here but you don't
want to give specific sentences that
you're memorizing because if other
people are also doing the same thing the
readers they're going to the examiners
are going to sense this and they're
going to penalize you heavily for that
yeah that's that's right also like yeah
have this this thing when you not just
go being everything from your head but
adding new thoughts yeah I was thinking
maybe we should go to the questions
quickly big yeah five minutes let go
yeah okay so just finish it here so you
have the rubrics take a look at the
rubrics and see how they're scoring you
for how what's a good answer include and
try to tailor your your writing to fit
those characteristics so and finally
just as we've said here throughout this
whole webinar so far just practice
practice practice so become familiar
with the test as much as possible take
as many practice tests as you can record
yourself become very confident with your
speaking and answering those questions
speak with language and partners and
teachers again review your grammar and
spelling but realize that it's not the
only point that's in there and get
people to read what you write and try to
practice new vocabulary each day and
practice your listening reading every
day so try to establish a daily routine
that's really going to help you prepare
for this in the long term because with
cramming like in seven days that you're
very limited on success you're going to
have so just thank you again for
watching this and attending this today
so let's get into the questions I'm
going to stop sharing my screen here and
we'll move back to see your questions
yeah so yeah the question that I really
liked here we're going to go to the
writing part questions next but the
first question is you know how to
conquer the fear of the test and you
know you just have to well if you
prepare it a lot if you've done like you
know eight practice tests and you know
that normally you would score I don't
know 27 out of 30 in reading 25 out of
30 in listening and you know exactly
where you are and then the fear just has
to go away because the test is going to
be almost the same same to the test that
you've got in your practice test just
two questions will be a little different
the experience would be pretty much the
same so just relax and you know don't
think that this is something unfamiliar
and the second thing also you can always
retake the test
like you don't have to you don't have to
think that this is the last chance ever
to take toy well you can take joyful
every week it's just you don't have to
do it like oh I'll take joyful this week
and see if it's not gonna you know if I
don't get the results that I need then
I'm just gonna take it next week no this
is a bad strategy but you know when you
prepare just go and get this test in no
fears you can retake it
anytime yeah definitely I have had
students that it I mean the first time
that they took the test it was this kind
of discovery of the whole experience
and so like like anything in life the
first time you do something it's not
going to be perfect you can prepare for
it as much as you want but like actually
doing it going through it and that whole
conditions that's kind of a part of that
learning experience so if you do have
this mindset of like okay I'm learning
how this process is works I'm gonna do
my best but if this is not the best
result I'm gonna try it again i I know I
realize that this is like a financial
commitment that you're going to buy the
TOEFL test two times but if you think
about your potential studies of what
universities could you go to how much
are you willing to invest like are you
really committed to studying abroad and
going to the best university possible so
does taking the TOEFL two times does
that like would that allow you to get
that university that you want so like by
all mean I would do it I would like ask
some ask somebody to help me out with
like a little bit extra money if I had
to take the test a second time but so
become as familiar with the test as much
as possible so that you don't like go
into the test knowing nothing and just
kind of improvising it mm-hmm and yeah
another question is in the writing
section is it right to save a little
time to revise my writing
yes deaf
we take some time in the end take like
10 minutes in the end to revise what
you've just written because you will
definitely find mistakes and also it's
right for every part for reading part I
had some time in the end to check my
answers and I found three mistakes and
if I didn't do that I would score 27 out
of 30 but because I went back and
checked the answers I got 30 out of 30
because the three mistakes I found were
the only mistakes so yeah for every part
of joyfull this is right just go back
when you can and check the answers oh
definitely yeah with their time
management definitely includes some time
that you can review your answers maybe
not on the speaking part like this it's
time to finish your book really reading
writing uh maybe not so much of
listening because again you you won't
get that like extra listening but at
least for your reading and writing parts
definitely allocate some of that time so
you're not just a finish move on no
finish
okay like clear head take a minute to
breathe and then read it with kind of a
new set of eyes because I see this even
with my own writing of like writing a
blog post or writing some stuff I would
like if I'm too much in that moment I
might skip something and so I kind of
need to take a breather
look at this and do something too so I
can catch some of those some of those
mistakes because points are very
valuable on this test you want to get as
many as you can
yeah so guys thank you so much for being
here with us today and thank you
Jonathan for preparing the presentation
and telling us all the details about
every part of the TOEFL and if you guys
are looking for a teacher to help you
with preparation Jonathan is there for
you and he takes have new students right
now and if you're booking up for lessons
you're going to get one lesson three if
you're booking eight lessons you're
going to get two lessons to create and
if you booking sixteen lessons you're
going to get four lessons for free and
this is valid today and tomorrow
so you have two days because I know many
people would be watching the recording
of this video and you guys can go on and
book
Johnathan's classes I will leave the
link below if you have any questions you
can comment them and we will get back to
you and answer the questions so again
thank you so much I hope you enjoyed it
this was my first live stream on this
channel and I hope we can do more later
as well so cool have a good day have a
good night wherever you are and thanks
so much yeah thanks everybody
yeah cool bye bye